---
description: 'What’s behind the horse paintings- Elli Milan '
dateModified: '2016-07-24T05:25:32.202Z'
datePublished: '2016-07-24T05:25:56.055Z'
title: Art Journal
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-07-24-art-journal.md
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
# Art Journal

What's behind the horse paintings- Elli Milan 

One of my all time favorite subjects to paint is the horse. The horse has become a really personal symbol to me. In our paintings, a horse means strength, service, devotion, messenger, and spiritual collaboration. We had been painting horses for years and selling them in galleries as fast as we could produce them. At the time, I had loved painting the horse for its form, movement and line, but it wasn't so personal yet. 

An art school professor told me once, "what you paint, is what you get". These words have always stuck with me, and through experience I have seen many times my paintings bring in a reality to my life. After several years of painting horses, I was suddenly and un expectantly given a horse. My mom had rescued a neglected horse who was starved and near death. She brought him back to life and fed him up until he was healthy. A few months later, she was riding him and he spooked badly and she fell off. She was afraid of this horse after that. Because we had wanted to expand our studio, we had been living on horse property for over a year and on my 39th birthday I was given this horse. I was terrified but excited too. Something supernatural happened to me and in one moment I fell madly in love with horse. It was so strong that I would watch him in his paddock before I went to sleep at night and could hardly wait to wake up to go see him again in the morning. 

I had very little experience with horses and had no idea on how to ride an animal that did not trust anyone. Beau is a Missouri fox trotter and has a special gait that makes him very smooth and fast. I didn't know how to really ride him or deal with his fear. We hired a trainer who knew about natural horsemanship who showed me how to connect with Beau and how a horse thinks. He showed me that a horse looks for strong, consistent, safe leadership and will give you his whole heart if he trusts you and knows you will be a good leader. After a few months, Beau and I developed a strong bond. I started learning how to ride with some old retired cowboys in the area who never let me give in to Beau's fear and pushed me past wanting to jump off him all the time. They teased me about wearing a helmut, but let me ride with them all over the trails and taught me how to not give a voice to the fear that would overcome Beau at times. A white cowboy hat, blowing tarps on the farms, tumble weeds, blowing plastic bags, sticks breaking, the sight of wire, and much more all spooked Beau and caused him to jump around or take off running. Consistently winning his trust and confidence over time and many long conversations in the saddle, eventually brought Beau to being a safe, content, friend who trusts me in almost any situation. We have such a connection now, and he knows what I am thinking. I only have to think about trotting and he will move into his gait, or think about loping and he will lope. If I think right he turns right, or if I think left he will turn left. It's absolutely magical and intensely fulfilling. 

Beau has taught me a lot about myself and how to move through difficult times. I've seen an aspect of God I hadn't known before, about collaboration, trust, and giving your whole heart abandoned to a realm of freedom beyond "what if". It has been incredibly rewarding to be a part of Beau's restoration and witness the transformation of fear to trust. Beau has brought me incredible joy, freedom, adventure, and revelation. We ride nearly everyday, and truly "the wind between a horse's ears is heaven". 

Working with Black Sands 

We are so excited to be working with Black Sands Publishing and for them to represent us. We have watched how they have worked with our daughter, Dimitra, for the last year and a half. We have seen them pull the very best out in her and their guidance has been invaluable. They have always treated her respectfully and professionally and allowed her to develop and flourish as an artist without changing her creative vision. While working with them, she has grown deeper into her identity as an artist and has remained just as passionate about her painting throughout the process. After witnessing Dimitra's growth with Black Sands, it was an easy decision to be represented by them as well. We are expecting great things in the next few years and how the relationship will develop. It's very exciting to have a such a talented and professional team behind us, to support us with marketing and details with such excellence. What we are most excited about, is how much freedom we now have to just simply paint and create and devote ourselves to what we love most. We just know that our art will develop and flourish and we can hardly wait to share it with our collectors. 

Drawing What goes on in My Mind- John Milan 

Ever since I can remember I have been a doodler. I grew up in Hawaii as an only child with my single mother. We lived near an artist who was very extravagant and had her oil paints all over the house. I would go there and look around , just amazed at the smell of oil paint and charcoals. She also encouraged my mother and I to be artists and that that was the best way to live life. Being creative became my everyday thing. I was fortunate to have a mother who loved to go to museums and art galleries. She always encouraged me to draw and read and make friends. I would draw for many hours a day , in-between going to the beach, coming up with styles that I considered unique. It was always so important to me to be diﬀerent .everything had to be," ORIGINAL " I loved comics and art related books . I was constantly collecting pens , papers and books. I would set up an area and just work with black & white images, creating my own version of characters and writing everything they would say or do. The more I went into that world , the more I wanted to be there! I kept thinking, everyone else could see these worlds and understand everything that I imagined, clearly! I loved to go to every gallery in Waikiki and just contemplate what every artist was saying with their work. At age 10, I started to look for other artists who I could relate to , such as ," Mark Alan Stamaty " and ," Salvador Dali "" John Pitre " and " Robert Williams " I had definite favorites, too many to mention here. I drew mazes , patterns and people , animals in a way that they could communicate with each other in and out of the mazes. I thought of the maze as everyone's lifestyle pattern. Figures would be drawn in shaded and stood out in their space , for sure. Everything had to have all these lines of shade on every area. Some people had long, stretched out ,limitless, desert style patterns, others had compact 9 to 5 job like patterns. The idea of running a race through life, as a metaphor, was important to convey. In my drawings I set up mile markers ,directions and clues to the pattern 

directions. I had many stacks of books filled with drawings and ideas for future works. I would say that I had a way to show what all those compartments of the mind had inside. I could close my eyes and then just picture the entire layout for a drawing and then spend a month filling in everything. When people looked at my artwork they would have such varied reactions , that was an inspiration to me. I felt that if I was able to reach my viewers in a positive way, that was what art was all about. I later realized developing the techniques and work ethic was therapeutic and helpful to me in life.